➕ Add definition for spiritual bypassing (#292)
selfdefined/web-app: 11ty/definitions/spiritual-bypassing.md

---

> title: Spiritual Bypassing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: spiritual bypassing
```

slug: spiritual-bypassing
defined: true

> excerpt: a form of appropriation where non-Black individuals use memes and imagery featuring Black people and dark-skinned emojis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: a form of appropriation where non-Black individuals use memes and imagery featuring Black people and dark-skinned emojis
```
I think this needs updating

Author: Oh whoops, sorry about that. Guess which term I duplicated to get started? 😬

Speech: noun
reading:
  - text: What Is Spiritual Bypassing? - Psychology Today
    href: https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-empowerment-diary/201901/what-is-spiritual-bypassing
  - text: Avoid spiritual bypassing — Anti-Racism Daily
    href: https://www.antiracismdaily.com/archives/spiritual-bypassing-anti-racism-daily
  - text: “Spiritual bypassing” is the “all lives matter” of the yoga world. Don't buy it
    href: https://www.mic.com/p/spiritual-bypassing-is-the-all-lives-matter-of-the-yoga-world-dont-buy-it-27631880
---

> Also referred to as toxic positivity. Spiritual bypassing is behavior that uses spiritual ideas and practices to delay or ignore acknowledging hardship. The pursuit of “good vibes only” or “oneness” can also downplay difficulties brought up by others, especially from [minoritized](/definitions/minoritised/) groups. Spiritual bypassing is present in many Western wellness and self-help practices, primarily Yoga.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a behavior that uses spiritual ideas and practices to delay or ignore acknowledging hardship; the pursuit of “good vibes only” or “oneness” that can downplay difficulties brought up by others, especially from [minoritized](/definitions/minoritised/) groups; present in many Western wellness and self-help practices, primarily Yoga
```

Reviewer: I provided a heavy-handed edit here with the definition because it restates parts of the word; generally we treat this like a "dictionary" definition with broken-out phrases.

One area that needs rewrite is in the last clause starting with "present in..." The way it's written implies that Yoga is a Western wellness practice. If we're going to say something to that effect, and I understand where you're going with it, we need to address that it's the Western and white culture appropriation of Yoga. Without that delineation, it reads that we think Yoga is a white and Western practice.

Author: Thank you for this edit and its feedback, I think it reads way better now. I also agree with your comment about the last clause. I'll work to update it.

## Issues

Spiritual bypassing avoids deeply addressing discomfort by offering surface-level platitudes, often in the form of co-opted religious, philosophical, and spiritual practices and terminology.

> Not addressing discomfort means an individual will not process and internalize difficult or painful events. This escapism prevents them from working through discomfort and hardship. This approach is directly at odds with Yoga’s practice of being present and working through emotional discomfort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not addressing discomfort means an individual will not process and internalize difficult or painful events. Escapism of this form prevents the individual from working through discomfort and hardship. Such a spiritual bypassing approach is directly at odds with Yoga’s practice of being present and working through emotional discomfort.
```

Failing to acknowledge hardship is especially problematic in the context of minoritized groups in wellness spaces. Downplaying both invalidates their lived experiences and creates an environment that both disincentives further participation and suppresses trauma.

Wellness instructors often perpetuate spiritual bypassing by modeling the behavior they see from others practitioners, notably on social media. Oftentimes they are unaware of its negative aspects and view the behavior as a deeper investment in the practice.

> Furthermore, co-opted language and imagery is often drawn specifically from Indian culture and Hindu faith. These concepts are often presented with no attribution and devoid of, or in conflict with the original context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, co-opted language and imagery is often drawn specifically from Indian culture and Hindu faith. Concepts are often presented by people who do not identify as Indian or of Hindu faith and without attribution to and context of or in conflict with the original cultural context.
```

## Examples

An instructor saying a phrase such as, “we are all one” or “we are all human” when confronted with difficulty or hardship.

> 

Reviewer: Telling someone to "feel better" or to "get well" or to suggest Yoga or other unsolicited medical advice when not someone's explicit medical adviser. Such comments can be hurtful and damaging to mentally and physically chronically ill and disabled people who cannot and will not "get better" or "get well."

Author: I like this example. Do you mind if I incorporate it?

Reviewer: I’d love that!

Reviewer: I think in this section we need to address power and privilege. Often the people telling someone to employ "good vibes" has systemic power and privilege. So, them telling someone who experiences institutional oppression to just "have good vibes" is an abuse of their power as well, invalidating their lived experiences.

Reviewer: @ericwbailey Did you all opt no to include this example? Fine if it was intentional but want to flag in case it was not. (I find it adds an important dimension of disableism myself?)

---
title: spiritual bypassing
slug: spiritual-bypassing
defined: true
excerpt: a behavior that uses spiritual ideas and practices to delay or ignore acknowledging hardship
Speech: noun
reading:
  - text: What Is Spiritual Bypassing? - Psychology Today
    href: https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-empowerment-diary/201901/what-is-spiritual-bypassing
  - text: Avoid spiritual bypassing — Anti-Racism Daily
    href: https://www.antiracismdaily.com/archives/spiritual-bypassing-anti-racism-daily
  - text: “Spiritual bypassing” is the “all lives matter” of the yoga world. Don't buy it
    href: https://www.mic.com/p/spiritual-bypassing-is-the-all-lives-matter-of-the-yoga-world-dont-buy-it-27631880
  - text: "Toxic Positivity: Don't Always Look on the Bright Side - Psychology Today"
    href: https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-man-cave/201908/toxic-positivity-dont-always-look-the-bright-side
---

> a behavior that uses spiritual ideas and practices to delay or ignore acknowledging hardship; the pursuit of “good vibes only” or “oneness” that can downplay difficulties brought up by others, especially from [minoritized](/definitions/minoritised/) groups. Spiritual bypassing is commonly found amongst Western wellness and self-help practitioners, including spiritual teachers and leaders, Yoga instructors, preachers, and motivational speakers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a behaviour that uses spiritual ideas and practices to delay or ignore acknowledging hardship; the pursuit of “good vibes only” or “oneness” that can downplay difficulties brought up by others, especially from [minoritised](/definitions/minoritised/) groups; commonly exhibited by Western wellness and self-help practitioners, including spiritual teachers and leaders, Yoga instructors, preachers, and motivational speakers.
```
Changing grammar here to align with "behaviour"

## Issues

Spiritual bypassing avoids deeply addressing discomfort by offering surface-level platitudes, often in the form of co-opted religious, philosophical, and spiritual practices, terminology, and imagery. 

Spiritual bypassing is also referred to as toxic positivity. It is commonly found in wellness spaces, temples, churches, hospitals, therapy centers, and self-help groups.

Wellness instructors often perpetuate spiritual bypassing by modeling the behavior they see from others practitioners, notably on social media. They are oftentimes unaware of its negative aspects and view the behavior as a deeper investment in the practice.

Furthermore, co-opted language and imagery is often drawn specifically from tenets of faith. These concepts are often presented by people who do not identify with the underlying belief system. They are also often presented without attribution or context, and the instance of application may be in conflict with the original cultural context.

## Examples

> Saying a phrase such as, “we are all one” or “we are all human” when confronted with difficulty or hardship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saying a phrase such as, “we are all one” or “we are all human” when confronted with difficulty or hardship, in particular when that hardship or oppression is specific to an axis of someone's identity, such as their race, gender, neurodiversity, ability, etc.
```

Author: u werd gud

## Impact

> Not addressing discomfort means an individual will not process and internalize difficult or painful events. Escapism of this form prevents the individual from working through hardship. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not addressing discomfort means an individual will not process and internalise difficult or painful events. Escapism of this form prevents the individual from working through hardship. 
```

> Failing to acknowledge hardship is especially problematic in the context of minoritized groups. Downplaying invalidates both their lived experiences and creates an environment that both disincentives further participation and suppresses trauma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Failing to acknowledge hardship is especially problematic in the context of minoritised groups. Downplaying invalidates both their lived experiences and creates an environment that both disincentives further participation and suppresses trauma.
```

[Other possible effects of spiritual bypassing](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/319321341_The_Opiate_of_the_Masses_Measuring_Spiritual_Bypass_and_Its_Relationship_to_Spirituality_Religion_Mindfulness_Psychological_Distress_and_Personality) include dichotomous thinking, obsession, codependence, narcissism, spiritual materialism, and abdication of personal responsibility.

Also understand the chilling effects it has on minoritized communities, and how it affects their presence (or lack of presence) in spaces where spiritual bypassing is practiced.

## What to do instead

Understanding how to identify spiritual bypassing as a discrete behavior and any co-opted concepts that are used to perform it is an important first step. It can be present both in-person and on social media channels.

> Identification means an individual can cease these behaviors, if practicing them. If witnessed, it is advised to use indirect questioning techniques such as [motivational interviewing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motivational_interviewing) to ascertain the underlying factors compelling this behavior. Direct confrontation may have opposite of the desired effect. It may be construed as an attack on the person's authority, or cause them to double-down and further incorporate it into their sense of identity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identification means an individual can cease these behaviors, if practicing them. If witnessed, it is advised to use indirect questioning techniques such as [motivational interviewing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motivational_interviewing) to ascertain the underlying factors compelling this behaviour.

Direct confrontation may have opposite of the desired effect. It may be construed as an attack on the person's authority, or cause them to double-down and further incorporate this behaviour into their sense of identity and cause even more harm.
```

---
title: spiritual bypassing
slug: spiritual-bypassing
defined: true

> excerpt: a behavior that uses spiritual ideas and practices to delay or ignore acknowledging hardship

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: a behaviour that uses spiritual ideas and practices to delay or ignore acknowledging hardship especially of minoritised groups
```

Speech: noun
reading:
  - text: What Is Spiritual Bypassing? - Psychology Today
    href: https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-empowerment-diary/201901/what-is-spiritual-bypassing
  - text: Avoid spiritual bypassing — Anti-Racism Daily
    href: https://www.antiracismdaily.com/archives/spiritual-bypassing-anti-racism-daily
  - text: “Spiritual bypassing” is the “all lives matter” of the yoga world. Don't buy it
    href: https://www.mic.com/p/spiritual-bypassing-is-the-all-lives-matter-of-the-yoga-world-dont-buy-it-27631880
  - text: "Toxic Positivity: Don't Always Look on the Bright Side - Psychology Today"
    href: https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-man-cave/201908/toxic-positivity-dont-always-look-the-bright-side
---

a behaviour that uses spiritual ideas and practices to delay or ignore acknowledging hardship; the pursuit of “good vibes only” or “oneness” that can downplay difficulties brought up by others, especially from [minoritised](/definitions/minoritised/) groups; commonly exhibited by Western wellness and self-help practitioners, including spiritual teachers and leaders, Yoga instructors, preachers, and motivational speakers.

## Issues

> Spiritual bypassing avoids deeply addressing discomfort by offering surface-level platitudes, often in the form of co-opted religious, philosophical, and spiritual practices, terminology, and imagery. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spiritual bypassing avoids deeply addressing discomfort by offering surface-level platitudes, often in the form of co-opted religious, philosophical, and spiritual practices, terminology, and imagery.
```

Wellness instructors often perpetuate spiritual bypassing by modeling the behavior they see from others practitioners, notably on social media. They are oftentimes unaware of its negative aspects and view the behavior as a deeper investment in the practice.

Furthermore, co-opted language and imagery is often drawn specifically from tenets of faith. These concepts are often presented by people who do not identify with the underlying belief system. They are also often presented without attribution or context, and the instance of application may be in conflict with the original cultural context.

It is also worth noting that when spiritual bypassing is practiced by individuals in positions of authority it directly and indirectly exercises power. Suppressing expressions of hardship is a regulatory behaviour that invalidates lived experiences.

## Examples

Saying a phrase such as, “we are all one” or “we are all human” when confronted with difficulty or hardship, in particular when that hardship or oppression is specific to an axis of someone's identity, such as their race, gender, neurodiversity, ability, etc.

## Impact

> Not addressing discomfort means an individual will not process and internalise difficult or painful events. Escapism of this form prevents the individual from working through hardship. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not addressing discomfort means an individual will not process and internalise difficult or painful events. Escapism of this form prevents the individual from working through hardship.
```

Failing to acknowledge hardship is especially problematic in the context of minoritised groups. Downplaying invalidates both their lived experiences and creates an environment that both disincentives further participation and suppresses trauma.

[Other possible effects of spiritual bypassing](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/319321341_The_Opiate_of_the_Masses_Measuring_Spiritual_Bypass_and_Its_Relationship_to_Spirituality_Religion_Mindfulness_Psychological_Distress_and_Personality) include dichotomous thinking, obsession, codependence, narcissism, spiritual materialism, and abdication of personal responsibility.

> Also understand the chilling effects it has on minoritized communities, and how it affects their presence (or lack of presence) in spaces where spiritual bypassing is practiced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also understand the chilling effects it has on minoritised communities, and how it affects their presence (or lack of presence) in spaces where spiritual bypassing is practiced.
```

## What to do instead

Understanding how to identify spiritual bypassing as a discrete behavior and any co-opted concepts that are used to perform it is an important first step. It can be present both in-person and on social media channels.

> Identification means an individual can cease these behaviors, if practicing them. If witnessed, it is advised to use indirect questioning techniques such as [motivational interviewing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motivational_interviewing) to ascertain the underlying factors compelling this behaviour. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identification means an individual can cease these behaviors, if practising them. If witnessed, it is advised to use indirect questioning techniques such as [motivational interviewing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motivational_interviewing) to ascertain the underlying factors compelling this behaviour.
```
